---
title:  "Second meeting to organize YES award"
date:   "02/12/2022"
output: github_document
---

**Attendees:** \* Lea Francia \* Roberto Mediavilla \* Daniel Morillo \*
Cristina Rodríguez \* Jesus Sierralaya

**Scribe:** Cristina Rodríguez

**Schedule:** 11:00 - 11:31

# Action points

## Use of 'sourcetree' for manipulating branches on Git

#### Debate

-   We discuss how version history is recorded and who is changing what.
-   A good tool to manage branches is 'sourcetree', which can be easily
    downloaded from [here](https://www.sourcetreeapp.com/).

## Use of canonical mode

#### Debate

-   Canonical mode saves us conflicts when working with people who prefer to
    work with different modes (Source or Visual).
-   It establishes conventions that are always applied in Visual to Source mode.


## Skeleton of the proposal

#### Debate

-   Based on three key concepts:

-   data management

-   [literate
    computing](https://medium.com/@mryap/what-is-literate-computing-6b3de57595a6)

-   version control

To work in each of these sections, each one of us will create a branch that
comes out of the branch `template-fillin` and that corresponds to our section.
For example, in the case of Cris it would be `template-fillin/reusability`

#### Agreements

-   **Approved**: *Proposal fill-in*

    -   Dani, Lea, Jesús and Cris will review will review a part of the skeleton
        and elaborate it in maximum 400 characters.
    -   Rober will be the reviewer of the skeleton as a whole.
    -   bifurcaste branch `drafting/template-fillin` to fill in the corresponding 
        section; e.g., `drafting/reusability` to fill in section "Reusability"

-   **Postponed**: *Approve of the previous minutes*. We left pending for the
    next meeting to approve the minutes of the first meeting taken by Jesus due
    to github usability issues.

-   **Rejected**: None.

#### Tasks

-   **Lea Francia**: Fill in field "Outputs: What has the initiative achieved so
    far?""

-   **Cristina Rodríguez**: Fill in field "Reusability: What steps have been
    taken for others to reuse this initiative?"

-   **Jesus Sierralaya**: Fill in field "Follow-up: How do you intend to use the
    award?"

-   **Daniel Morillo**: Fill in field "Description: What is the Open Science
    practice/initiative about?"

-   **Roberto Mediavilla**: Proposal review

# Suggestions, questions

The Teams channel is established as a form of communication to ask questions
regarding Git usability.

# **Task summary:**

## Dani

-   Fill in field "Description"

## Lea

-   Fill in field "Outputs"

## Cris

-   Fill in field "Reusability"

## Jesus

-   Fill in field "Follow-up"
-   Upload minutes of previous meeting

## Rober

-   Review
