---
title: Yerun Open Science Award form
---

# Description: What is the Open Science practice/initiative about?

*Please provide information as to the following aspects (as applicable):*

-   [*Introduction*]{.underline}*: short overview of the initiative. What are
    its key Open Science objectives (and others, if applicable)? Who are the
    target groups? What are the main activities organised?*

-   [*Context*]{.underline} *in which the initiative was implemented: What
    prompted you to develop this initiative?*

-   [*Obstacles and solutions*]{.underline}*: What challenges, if any, were
    encountered? Were they/how were they solved?*

The European Commission has started to adhere to open access guidelines. Our
group is or has been involved in nearly ten international projects funded by the
European Union. We have developed our methodology for reproducibility in two
recent projects, with the aim of standardizing it, and disseminate it to other
groups. Therefore, our target audience will ultimately be the whole scientific
community.

Our proposal consists of implementing a full open science workflow, reusable
across research projects and exportable to other groups. The aim is not only to
produce reproducible research outputs, but to go beyond that and make the whole
scientific production process reproducible: We want to make the historical of
the scientific process itself completely transparent and reproducible by
documenting all the progress and decisions made along the way. We implement this
using three technologies: open data management, literate computing, and version
control. Open data management is implemented by means of the Opal technology (a
Linux-based server), which enables data sharing with a controlled interface
without disclosing sensitive, personal data. Literate computing is implemented
with the Rstudio environment and associated components ("de facto" standards
such as the Rmarkdown format and the Knitr engine), which allow editing all
research outputs in text format, combining data analyses and natural language to
produce e.g. manuscripts. Using text files exclusively allows us to use a
version control system. For convenience, we have chosen to use Git, with the
Github service to centralize our production.

Although these technologies have allowed us to manage projects in a completely
reproducible way, we have also found some challenges; both Opal and Git require
a high level of expertise. When necessary, we have asked for help from experts
in other fields, or investigated our own solutions. We have also implemented
training sessions about the literate computing ecosystem and version control
management. When we have found limits to the automation achievable with the
literate computing framework, we have exhaustively documented the manual steps
needed to produce the final output. In one case, we subjectively assessed the
level of automation around 99% (four minor steps had to be performed manually
before the submission). Finally, we have found resistance towards the adoption
of these technologies. In these cases we have adapted our workflows to the needs
of the other researchers involved, but we also intend to do formative actions to
help bridge that resistance gap.

<!--# 394 words -->

<!--# Next lines: To "Outputs"? -->

We believe this methodology can help document the whole research process, thus
helping resolve some issues related with scientific reproducibility: uncovering
researchers' biases or implicit conflicts of interest, improving accountability,
and allowing better audits.

<!--# Next lines: To "Ouputs"/"Reusability"? -->

In one project we have already used the literate computing and version control
technologies to manage the whole production of a research article (please see
<https://github.com/CCOMS-UAM/mapping-initiatives>). We are currently
implementing the data management system in Opal in an ongoing project, along
with the other two technologies.

# Outputs: What has the initiative achieved so far?

*Please provide information as to the following aspects (as applicable):*

-   [*Benefits*]{.underline}*: What benefits were realised (to date) through
    this initiative, and for whom?*

    SYNCRHOS insert. In RESPOND, we have already published open access
    manuscripts aimed at informing mental and occupational health policies for
    vulnerable popularions during the COVID-19 pandemic, especially HCWs. Soon,
    we will report the results of our RCT, and make the code available.

-   [*Lessons learnt*]{.underline}*: What knowledge have you gained (so far)
    through your work?*

    In the context of the COVID-19 pandemics, preprints increased, journals had
    open access policies, etc. In a rapidly changing world, with climate crisis,
    wars, etc., research should (and will) move rapidly and collaboratively.
    This requires training and collaboration, and it is the reason why we apply
    for this grant.

<!--# blank field, max 400 words -->

# Reusability: What steps have been taken for others to reuse this initiative?

*Please provide information as to the following aspects (as applicable):*

-   *What are the steps you have taken/are taking to make the initiative
    available to others?*

    Learnings from SYNCHROS and RESPOND. We have been developing SOPs (e.g., for
    anonymization), we are doing minutes in our meetings, we share our
    manuscripts in OneDrive so that we can keep track of versions, comments,
    etc.). We will share our server at the CCC with other research groups if
    they need it.

-   *Is the practice, its structure and output, easily findable online? If yes,
    where?*

    This I don't understand very good. Include links to policy briefs, SOPs,
    SYNCHROS paper, Lea's paper on Git, etc.

-   *Can the practice be reused in other departments or institutions?*

<!--# blank field, max 400 words -->

# Follow-up: How do you intend to use the award?

-   *How would this award support you / your team in taking forward your current
    initiative, or would you like to initiate a new project with the financial
    resources from the award?*

    We will use the money for training. We will develop an SOP for the lab. We
    will embed new projects in this OS framework. We will try to migrate
    previous projects when possible. We will also try to anonymize datasets to
    avoid GDPR and make them publicly accessible -if not possible, we will use
    OPAL and DataShield.

<!--# blank field, max 400 words -->
